hey welcome to this edition of build
your tribe my name is Charlene Johnson
and today I will be your host we are
talking about I'm sharing with you the
six things I had to do in order to be
successful as an entrepreneur with ADHD
to be successful as somebody who is
easily distracted as I find many
entrepreneurs are we are the type of
people often times who see little
details that maybe others don't we pick
up on patterns that other people
completely Miss and this can be our
greatest gift but it can also be our
Achilles heel because you've got to be
focused in order to be successful so
here are the six things I think made the
biggest difference in terms of helping
me to be successful as an entrepreneur
thanks for joining me
first thing I had to do was focus on one
thing and that's probably the hardest
thing I ever had to do
I grew up with a father who was an
entrepreneur and did a lot of different
things I often saw him you know managing
multiple business opportunities
different different ideas different ways
of making money and so my belief was you
know you've got to do all of these
things and it'll all add up and that's
what will make you successful and you
know for those of you've heard my story
I did was doing all of the things I was
doing too many things at once
so I was working like 80 hours a week at
all of these things and none of them
were Greely popping off like I was
making enough money to justify each one
of them but not enough to feel
successful in any one of them I was
working like you know 80 hours a week or
maybe not 80 but a lot and I remember
thinking what it must be like
what
it must be like to just come home from
work each day and not continue working
like what must it be like to just work
40 hours and not have to work on the
weekends like maybe I should go back and
get a job because
I can't rest
and then I had some very important
advice from a mentor who basically said
you you're not going to be successful
the way you want to be the way you have
the potential to be unless you learn to
focus on one thing
and that's really really hard when we
are afraid that the one thing that we
pick might be the wrong thing the one
thing that we pick might not be the the
big thing what if something else ends up
popping off later so you know it's it's
this scarcity mindset that keeps us
afraid to just focus on one thing and
we're like oh but it's hard to I don't
want to give up this thing because it's
making a lot of money and it feels like
you're walking away from money right and
I just kept looking at very successful
people and realizing
what I don't have in common with them is
they are known for one thing they'd like
focused on one thing and became very
known for that there's a great book I
think it's actually called being known
I'll figure it out and I'll put in the
show notes but I remember listening to
that book and thinking like that that
that's it this is it and the book came
out like long after I followed that
advice and decided to focus on just one
thing at the time that one thing for me
was Fitness it wasn't the thing I was
the most passionate about it wasn't the
thing I felt I was like meant to do it
was an opportunity and I can see and
sense from the market and the fact that
there was this problem to solve that no
one else had been solving which was
creating you know fitness programs and
choreographing music and the and not
just choreographing to the music and
giving the instructors the music and the
choreography I knew that there was a lot
of instructors struggling with that
problem and it was almost reaching like
a boiling point and if I didn't solve
this problem or and Market the solution
somebody else would so that it was an
opportunity you know and I seized that
opportunity but in order to do that I
had to put all these other ideas that I
was playing with all these other
businesses I had to put them aside now
here's what's interesting is I later
went back to many of those things like
uh like for example teaching business
and marketing that's what I do now right
but at that time it just wasn't working
I just didn't have the authority I
didn't have uh the social media like it
just it just wasn't the right time
and so focusing on one thing would be my
first and most important tip for anyone
who struggles to stay focused uh the
second thing that I did was set a limit
on the amount of learning when you are
easily distracted whether you've been
diagnosed with ADHD or not this type of
individual tends to obsess with learning
new information and I want you to learn
and I'm still like obsessed with
learning new things but there's a point
in which you have to stop stop learning
and start implementing where you have to
tell yourself okay I know enough to be
dangerous I know enough to make it messy
and as I always say in order to make
money you got to make it messy like you
you just have to pull the trigger before
you feel like you're ready if you feel
like you re you're ready you probably
waited too long and I I had to recognize
that there was I was never going to know
enough
and I I just had to like realize okay
time to pull the trigger and go for it
even though I don't feel ready even
though I feel like there's more I need
to learn even though I feel like there's
people who know so much more than me and
I had to force myself to implement and I
knew the implementation meant like
taking action
so it was setting limits on the amount
that I was learning and really just
giving myself a deadline like a date
okay on this date no matter how far I've
gotten or no matter how ill prepared I
feel I'm fill in the blank pulling the
trigger the number three thing that I
had to do was less
I had to have more space on my calendar
you know when I was working full-time
for somebody else and I look back at my
day planner from back then it was like
every single minute of the day was
scheduled to the max there was no time
to think or be creative it was just like
productivity productivity productivity
but I've discovered as someone who is
creative and needs to focus that in
order for me to focus I need more space
on my calendar
so I know this is going to sound crazy
but like I do one major thing a day I
don't do five major things like I I
couldn't do multiple back-to-back
podcast interviews I just couldn't do
that my brain doesn't work that way and
so I think it's really important that we
honor the way that our brain works and
my brain can't handle like back to back
to back meetings back-to-back
assignments I can't and so that means
maybe I have to do a lot less and that's
exactly what I did is I added more dead
space more area on my calendar more time
available every single day to daydream
to
to think to process
to be creative and you might ask what
does it specifically look like this
looks like when I schedule something I
might say podcasts and even though it
only takes me say 30 minutes to record
the podcast I'll schedule an hour and a
half
because the truth is it might only take
me 30 minutes to record it but I want
like 30 minutes before it to really
think through what it is I'm thinking
and the points that I want to make and
that doesn't even include the research
that I need to do for right that's like
another schedule but then I also want to
include the 30 minutes after I've
finished
to not just upload the files and come up
with a great title but to just think
through like what would be the next
thing somebody would want to hear like
to to give myself the space to to
daydream a little bit to to get off
course because if you're easily
distracted
you can't change that about yourself you
know you just have to set up the right
parameters and you have to honor that
about yourself you have to you have to
see the benefits of it and how it can
truly benefit your business if you give
yourself the space and to allow and
explain to people how your brain works
because I'm telling it like there's so
many people that I know they do not
understand the way my brain works they
don't get it you know like we'll be in
meetings team meetings and after I've
done like you know maybe four different
business centers I'll have to be like
okay I'm so sorry we have to reschedule
this and thankfully I'm the CEO so I can
do that but there's a point in which I'm
no longer useful
it's not benefiting anybody because my
brain is gone I've tapped out I can't
even focus anymore and I think it's
really important as you know the owners
the CEO
the boss then instead of trying to force
yourself to have somebody else's brain
you know whatever that is for you that
you set up parameters
to honor the way your brain works you
make accommodations you know there's
certain things like it I can't force
other people to accommodate me but like
I can find ways to accommodate myself if
that makes sense
all right the let's see the fourth thing
that I did was recognize that people can
be a real distraction for me so even
though networking is so important
especially when you're growing your
business like you can only go so far on
your own it's so important to have the
right people in your corner to know the
right people to be introduced to the
right people to to be around those
who've done the things that you want to
do people who want to pour into you and
I find it really successful fellow
entrepreneurs love pouring into up and
coming like we love teaching other
people we love being the know-it-alls
right and we love like learning
something and figuring out and then
telling somebody else how to do it so if
you can get into circles where people
love doing that whether it's a
mastermind or networking opportunity or
going to the right in-person seminar
that is so powerful like I
so much of My Success I credit with
either mentors I've paid or coaches that
I've paid or just brief conversations
that I've had going to you know events
where there's going to be other
entrepreneurs like I always tell people
when they come to our event marketing
impact Academy that yeah we're going to
teach from the stage but man the the
thing that's going to change like the
course of your business is probably one
unexpected conversation in the elevator
down to the restaurant like you just
it's hard to get around those types of
creative people when the energy is just
surging and it's really important to do
but here's my tip
schedule those in seasons schedule your
networking in seasons in small doses so
there's maybe you're gonna pick like a
six-month period of time where you're
going to do a lot of networking but then
you have to stop because we're easily
distracted you can get caught up in
seeing what others are doing and
thinking that that needs to be your next
step
or worse yet believing that you're in
competition with those people and then
being hard on yourself and trying to
launch new things when that's really
what your next step should your next
step shouldn't be that also if you're
always networking if you're always
trying to make these new connections
how do you deepen them
I mean my most valued connections are
those where I really feel like like I
would do anything for these people like
I'm very very loyal maybe that's just me
I'm because I I know lots of folks who
everybody is their friend in in the
industry that's great I can't work that
way it doesn't work for me it feels
inauthentic it feels phony I don't like
it I don't trust it it doesn't work for
me I find it very distracting I would
rather pick out people in the industry
who I I want to emulate the way they are
living their life I like their ethics I
like the way they treat people I like
the way they treat their family I like
the way they live their life there are
people who I've learned a lot from and
they're incredibly successful in
business but I don't want their life
I don't want to live the way they're
living their life I don't want the
relationship or lack thereof that they
have with their kids so it's like it's
knowing who do I want to network with
how do I want to who who do I want to
network with how do I want my life to
look and then
how deep do I want to go with those
relationships and and setting some
boundaries or Seasons around the
networking that you're doing otherwise
you're just constantly meeting new
people and each person becomes you know
new introductions New Opportunities and
frankly a new distraction
I have one girlfriend who
this works for her she's constantly not
working every single week she's got like
five new people that she wants to
introduce me to I love her Natalie I
love you but I you know she also knows
because I've communicated this to her
like
no I I can't like it it really distracts
me and I love that you can do that and
it works for you and you've met all
these incredible people and had them on
your podcast and they've you know some
she has relationships with but for me
it's it doesn't help like it distracts
me and so it's setting parameters and
boundaries around that so because you do
need to network but I think it also
needs there's a limit to it my number
five tip is to stop creating new things
and instead focus on the things you've
already done that work and make them
work better that was a really big one
for me when you are a creative when
you're easily distracted every new thing
feels like a new idea a new business
opportunity like oh we should be doing
that we should be doing this and we
should be launching that and and it they
feel like I'm gonna make more money if I
do this and do that but
it's so easy to overwhelm your team to
overwhelm yourself and to create just
keep creating because you've got these
ideas and they're valid ideas but you
just keep creating mediocre things
once I discovered that we would make
more money and I would have more peace
if I learned to instead of launching a
new thing I just keep going back to the
things that already work
that already are killing it and make
them better make them better for the
customer make them better for our team
keep bringing on team members to improve
the systems continue improving our
systems is probably one of the most
valuable pieces of advice I could give
to anyone who feels a little overwhelmed
and distracted
because it's it's your systems improving
those systems it just kind of quiets
your brain like you already know it like
now make it better by looking at maybe
you know industries that are parallel to
yours or or products that are parallel
to yours thinking about the ways you
look at other products and and seeing
how can I incorporate that into this and
improving those systems
is one of the best things you can do
because you already have something
that's proven just make it better like
think about big businesses like the
iPhone the iPhone didn't also launch
like you know a bunch of other sister
products I mean eventually they did but
they're always improving the iPhone like
it just keeps getting better and better
and then once you have a customer who's
in love with something they want they
continually want the better thing like
they become lifers and that is a really
important tip my last and final tip
which probably should have been my first
was hiring help hiring help not just to
do the things that you don't need to
distract yourself with doing but and I
haven't talked much about this but I
hired a full-time chalene manager
someone who helps me stay focused now I
don't know exactly what title to give
her I mean some people might consider
this like an executive assistant
um but I have a full-time person who who
at the at the moment her name was Rachel
and Rachel's full-time job is to know
what it is I'm working on that day
and to help not just manage my time but
to manage anyone else who wants a piece
of my time so she anyone who wants to
schedule like a meeting with me like
that she has they have to go through her
so she figures out like okay what what
does chalene need to focus on today is
this because I would say yes right
because I've got ADHD so I'm like yeah
sure let's do it like I would say yes to
everything so she literally filters
through all of those incoming emails and
inquiries and meetings and scheduling
she knows how my brain works she knows
how much downtime I need she knows how
much prep work I need she knows uh how
to prioritize things better than I do
and that's one of the you know
cornerstones of having ADHD is
Everything feels equally important like
you need to do all the things at all
times and I'm not great at that
so if I can pay somebody
to do the thing that I am not good at
I could be more successful
and I could feel better about who I am
and how I am living my life
so she does that and in addition to that
she also you know again everyone who has
ADHD there's different types I have an
attentive ADHD which also happens to if
you look at the brain scans of people
who have this type of ADHD we also
really really struggle to estimate the
passage of time so like right now I
couldn't tell you if I've been you know
telling you talking on this podcast for
uh 30 minutes or 15 minutes I feel like
it's been more than five I I really
cannot estimate time so therefore it's
difficult for me to manage my projects
and to show up to places on time because
I'll dig into a product project I'll
start recording a podcast and forget
that I went too long and I've got a
meeting in five minutes you know what I
mean so her full-time job is to manage
my schedule she's I get a constant ding
she'll say 20 you've got 20 minutes left
you've got 10 minutes left you you need
to be done in five minutes and that
might seem excessive but she's paid full
time to do just that to keep me on task
so my recommendation to you is and maybe
that's not something you struggle with
but I'm sure that there's something
that you do struggle with and because of
it you lack Focus you feel disorganized
or you find yourself procrastinate
falling behind taking on too much not
doing enough I don't know what it is but
when you realize
investing in other people is the
ultimate win like when you invest in
other people the return on that is
exponential
every at every single stage when I
thought to myself oh it's dumb for me to
hire someone to do this I can do this
myself no matter what it is as soon as I
bite the bullet like having somebody
else edit this video having somebody
else edit the podcast those are all
things I could do they're all things
frankly I want to do I want to edit the
video I want to record the audio for
this podcast and I want to edit it but
it doesn't make sense for me to do that
when there's other people thank you Paul
thank you noi other members of our team
thank you Kristen who do a better job at
that so I can do the things that only I
can do which is show up and be me so it
is a an outdated misconception to think
that you're saving time by doing
something because you don't want to pay
someone else to do it trust me you don't
Tire someone full time my recommendation
is to start and we've done plenty of
episodes about this I will link to a few
of them that we've done the past like
how to make that first hire but when you
do uh it's just a part-time temporary
you can hire someone just for one gig
and you know if that goes well you can
hire them for another gig and then then
you kind of start to build up the
confidence and you've got the evidence
that wow this this actually did help me
to focus this did end up making me money
in the long run and if you spend the
time per you know really training that
person and
offering feedback like what didn't no
one's ever going to do something the way
you would do it ever
but if you if you have the patience and
you give them feedback and you're kind
and you're patient and you're you're
good at explaining these things and you
know this person has the potential in
the long run by spending a little bit of
time preparing them training them and
putting the systems in place you will
save yourself hundreds of hours and
you're going to make yourself more money
in the long run and more importantly
you'll have peace of mind and I think as
an entrepreneur that's the Legacy I want
to leave for people you don't have to
hustle your face off you don't have to
work harder harder harder I mean there's
another way to make more money it's
called working smarter getting focused
and I'm so happy that you spent this
time with me because I know that's
something you want to do or you wouldn't
have tuned into this episode by the way
if you're listening to this audio I want
to let you know we also offer the
podcast on YouTube so you can find this
on our YouTube channel as well click the
link below and you'll take you directly
to the the YouTube version if for some
reason you want to see the way I styled
my hair or my earrings sick this isn't
even my hair I'm wearing a hair
extension ponytail
isn't that fun it made it much easier to
get ready today I didn't have to blow
dry my hair I just put it back in a
ponytail and then I put this hair
extension on and I put these cute little
rubber bands around it and if you're
listening to the audio alone you're like
what is she talking about I guess you
better go check it out on YouTube hey
thanks for being here my goal is to be
brief to be bright to make it fun and
then be done we're done
[Music]